# CRIME-RATES-IN-AMERICA

     Crime in the United States has been recorded since the early 1600s. Crime rates have varied over time, with a sharp rise after 1900, reaching a broad bulging peak between the 1970s and early 1990s. Since then, crime has declined significantly and remains moderate at best nationwide, with crime rates continuing to decline through the first two decades of the new millenium. Since 1994, crime rates have steadily decreased, before rising up after 2015. 
     Statistics on specific crimes are indexed in the annual Uniform Crime Reports by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and by annual National Crime Victimization Surveys by the Bureau of Justice Statistics. In addition to the primary Uniform Crime Report known as Crime in the United States, the FBI publishes annual reports on the status of law enforcement in the United States. The report's definitions of specific crimes are considered standard by many American law enforcement agencies. According to the FBI, index crime in the United States includes violent crime and property crime. Violent crime consists of five criminal offenses: murder and non-negligent manslaughter, rape, robbery, aggravated assault, and gang violence.
     Historically crime is a well known social problem. Crime is an action that is deemed injurious to the public welfare and is legally prohibited. It is also an offense against the society which is punishable by the law. It disrupts not only the normal way of life but also the socio economic development of a society. Therefore, it is indispensable to analyze crime data to inform the police department and law enforcement agencies about specific and general trends and patterns of crime regularly. At present, different types of crime are responsible for causing a lot of problems all over the world. For that reason, crime analysts are expending time studying in crime and criminal behaviors in order to explore the characteristics and patterns of crime. It is acquainted that criminals follow repetitive patterns, so analyzing their behaviors can assist to find out relations among events from past crimes. For the purpose of this research, the dataset is collected from the Kaggle website. The dataset contains of different types of crimes and are considered to be forecasted.
